# moon-js

## Static Site Generation & SSR framework for custom-elements.

### Why?

The idea behind `moon-js` is to allow developers to rapidly create a full fledged
 web application using custom-elements with support for server side rendering.  
Under the hood it uses [@webtides/element-js](https://github.com/webtides/element-js).

## Installation

moon.js should be installed as a npm dependency. To install the module
add the following line to your dependencies and run `npm install`  
`"@webtides/moon-js": "git@github.com:webtides/moon-js.git"`.

## Getting started

`moon-js` ships with a command line tool. After installing `moon-js` as a dependency, you can simply run `moon --dev`
to start your application in development mode. If this is the first time you have started `moon-js`, you will be asked 
if `moon-js` should generate a config-file and a basic directory structure for you. 

## element-js concepts

You can read all about `element-js` here: [@webtides/element-js](https://github.com/webtides/element-js).

## moon-js concepts

`moon-js` uses the directory structure to automatically load the building blocks of your application.

### Configuration

`moon-js` uses a central configuration file at the root of your project to make itself familiar with your project
structure. The file is called `moon.config.js` and will be generated automatically the first time you run the `moon-js` 
cli.

### Pages & Routes

By creating a file in your configured `Pages Directory`, you can register a new route. The name of the fill will be 
the name of the route.

If your `Pages Directory` is `app/pages` and you create a new file `home.js`, the route that is being registered
is `/home`.  
If you create a page inside a subdirectory, for example in `admin/dashboard.js`, the route that is being registered
is `/admin/dashboard`.  

To register the  `/`-route, the name of your file should be `index.js`.

*Example of a `moon-js` route:*
```js
// index.js
import { html } from "@webtides/moon-js";

export default () => {
    return html`
        <h1>Welcome to moon-js</h1>
    `;
});
```

### Layouts

Your can define a layout, which the page should extend. In a layout you can define which stylesheets or external
scripts should be loaded.

You need to make sure that you allow the page content to be rendered, by specifiying `context.page` and the 
scripts which are generated by `moon-js`.

*Example of a custom layout file:*
```js
import { scripts } from "@webtides/moon-js/lib/packages/client/layouts/base";
import { html } from "@webtides/moon-js";

const layout = ({ context }) => {
    return html`
        <!doctype>
        <html>
            <head>
                <title></title>
            </head>
            <body>
                ${context.page}
                
                ${scripts({ html })}
            </body>
        </html>
    `;
};

export { layout };
```

*Example of a layout which extends the base layout provided by `moon-js`:*
```js
import { layouts, html } from "@webtides/moon-js";

const layout = ({ context }) => {

    context.head = [
        html`<link href="/assets/css/main.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />`,
        html`<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">`
    ];

    return layouts.base({ html, context });
};

export { layout };
```

### Using a layout

If you want to use a different layout than the default one, you have to specifiy it in your pages.
To do this, simply define a named `layout` export.

```js
import { html } from "@webtides/moon-js";
export { layout } from "../layouts/base";

export default (() => {
    return html`
        <h1>Welcome to moon-js</h1>
    `;
});
```

### APIs

Api routes can be created the same way as page routes. To register an api route, just create 
a file inside your `Api Directory`.

All api routes will be prefixed with `api`. If you create a `users.js` inside the root of your `Api directory`
the final url will be `/api/users`.

#### Get request

Example of a basic route which will react on a get request.
```js
export default async ({ request, response }) => {
    return response.json({ result: "success" });
}
```
#### Post request
Example of a basic route which will react on a post request.
```js
const post = async ({ request, response }) => {
    return response.json({ result: "success" });
};

export { post };
```

#### Mixed requests

```js
const post = async ({ request, response }) => {
    return response.json({ result: "get success" });
};

const get = async ({ request, response }) => {
    return response.json({ result: "post success" });
};

export { post, get };
```

### Hooks

To extend functionality and to react on certain events, `moon-js` introduces a hook system. You have
multiple of hooks available. To register a hook, create a file in your `Hooks Directory`.
